all right everybody it's saster um super
excited to have a good friend of mine a
good friend of saster Daniel ch's
co-founder in COO of greenhouse Daniel
thank you for being with us once again I
really appreciate it absolutely look
looking forward to the conversation is
it's always great to be talking to you
Jason and and uh I've have known Daniel
since pre-revenue at Greenhouse I was an
advisor and small
shareholder uh became very passionate
about the company in the beginning knew
one of his co-founders from my first
internet job so a lot of history here
Daniel was at the first saster annual we
had uh at least at the first I think it
was on our 20center panel I picked I
think I picked four C three and a half
CEOs around a million of Revenue and
said they're all going to make it it was
Daniel um it was Nick meta from a gain
site it was Thiago from uh talk des and
Nicholas from uh aloy and I think I
don't know whether you disclosed your r
not but everyone is sort of in the 200
million-ish ARR all interesting that
panel it's very interesting for SAS give
me a little credit for predicting that
100% of the 20 percenters got to 200
million in Revenue it's pretty
interesting isn't in terms of recurring
Revenue that's a pretty good hit rate I
mean it begs the question of was that
just good prediction or were you able to
make that happen through your excellent
advice and programming I think you can
help a little bit um I think there's
probably a lot of learnings I mean
honestly I don't know what your thoughts
are looking back I think cloud is so
much bigger today right and in a way if
you look back to 2015 if you are able to
achieve any decent level of growth
triple triple double double right and
Greenhouse grew faster than that for a
while you had to have insane product
Market fit because the markets were we
didn't realize it but the markets were
like a 50th of the size that they are
today
right yeah and it's funny I mean you
talked about meeting us before we were
you know in the pre-revenue I literally
remember and I wasn't just joking about
your advice like I remember we would
have these moments where we would be
grappling with some question about our
early go to market and trying to figure
out how to get our first few customers
or grow in this way and you would write
a blog post like that Friday like
coincidentally addressing that same
question and with the answer and we
would basically just like take whatever
you wrote and like do it and it worked
and like I don't know I think that's a I
think obviously like you had a lot of
great advice for sure but I also think
it speaks to the point that you were
just saying which is like we were there
we were in this moment that that these
markets were just growing up and all
these things that are now playbooks and
there's a lot of repeatable uh stuff out
there and people have done it before
were all just getting figured out for
the first
time and so it was kind of this moment
where you could you could just do the
vanilla SAS 101 Playbook and since your
buyers hadn't heard it all a thousand
times it worked do you think um just
looking back in terms of the level of
sophistication in SAS today could
something like the greenhouse of that
time 2015 could that even make it to
market today um how how has the market
changed for like overall HR software
applicant tracking recruiting like but
does that Greenhouse 1.0 would it even
get off the ground today you know it's
funny um yeah getting off the ground is
one thing in fact I was just having this
conversation earlier today with with a
startup founder yeah trying to do an
hrtech startup and my thing is like it's
such an easy and obvious pitch as a new
startup in HR Tech it's like she's hey
you know here's our idea there's a real
shortage of talent every company is
desperate and yet they all say it's
important and so like we've got this
thing that helps you like get better at
hiring um I'm like yeah everybody knows
that there's a like it's not interesting
to say that anymore um and and and by
the way I just walked around the HR Tech
conference which is like the biggest
industry Expo in our in our field and I
saw like 47 booths that all said like
finally we're here to solve all your
hiring problems in one box and just like
so that pitch has been done to death um
and I think buyers are a little bit
jaded about it because they've heard it
so many times at the same time if it's
easy for them to try like they'll try it
and so one sort of failure mode I see
over and over again is hey we've got a
cool new source of candidates and
everybody says signs up and say great
I'll give you five grand and your ARR
goes way up it's like really easy to get
to like 10 or 15 million of ARR and even
today yeah the problem is you can't you
know what happens next and and if you're
on the VC
Journey you know then then you just top
out and and you melt and I've seen that
happen time and time again in the ATS
industry it's a different story but
we're seeing this happen over and over
again is people come out and they say
your ATS is Clumsy and big and
complicated and expensive and ours is
cool and new and shiny and and nice to
use and by the way it's cheaper that's a
great pitch and that happens every year
and every year there's a new flavor you
know that comes out and then you know
some of the buyers go like oh it's a
little bit cheaper I'd rather spend
three grand than seven Grand and yeah it
is kind of nice to use um the problem is
if you're in business for any amount of
time you end up getting your your
product ends up getting a little bit
older you have hiring is really
complicated so if you're going to keep
solving different use cases if you don't
just want to have 200 customers you want
to get to 200 million of AR you got to
build a lot of software and so what you
can't do is be nice easy simple to use
cheaper than everyone else and big it's
just not it's tough right it is tough
I've never seen anyone do it so how are
I still um when I when I get uh copied
on emails from Founders I know or
portfolio companies it's I still feel
like the vast majority I'm seeing
Greenhouse there even relatively early
stage so how are you thinking about that
long tail like when you do have to be
very rich and Enterprise and complicated
in workflow I and I see so many folks
implicitly or explicitly abandon the
longtail sometimes it's like they cut it
off relentlessly sometimes they ignore
it right right um how have you thought
about that as you've gotten to put up
these big numbers yeah I mean I think
we've always tried to be really
intentional um in our in our strategy
and in this way in particular we've
always thought of it as we want to be
multi- segment I know it's a trade-off I
know it's a choice we're doing it
knowingly but we always thought um
number one you get a great portfolio
effect so in a year like this the SMB is
just doing worse there's a lot more
churn companies are going out a business
um new startup formation and growth is
down but the Enterprise segment that we
have which by the way is bigger now than
our SMB segment is doing great and so
the net retention characteristics and
the long-term nature of it like is
really nice at the same time there's
other years where you know smvs are just
you know jumping in the boat and it's
all you can do to take the orders as
fast as possible and so you get this
amazing growth so like the portfolio
effect of that at our scale is is really
helpful because you you're gonna have a
bunch of different years with a bunch of
different things happening secondly is I
do think there's something really neat
about having uh couple thousand startups
using your product every day you get so
much more Innovation like the
Enterprises don't really want all that
Innovation uh but or they're not g to
drive it but they want it and so it's
not g to come from them but having
startups lets us try things even if
they're not necessarily built out to
scale yet with our SMB customers and as
they succeed and we invest in them and
we get the regulatory needs and things
met then we can roll it out to like an
Enterprise customer I think our
Enterprise customers like the fact that
they benefit from that like they're the
lab that the start the tech companies
are the lab the startups are the lab
right got it you got it but look it's
but look it it it comes at the expense
of other things so like we're multi
we're multi- segment that means that
like we're serving a few different
markets and so it's like it's a lot of
stuff to build and how do
you a something folks seem to yo-yo on
as they scale is this idea hey look
maybe maybe as you know you just said
the majority of your revenue is
Enterprise so it'd be natur for
marketing and others to put all the
money there right all the energy it's
just natural right but then folks
realize that if they don't put enough
into the startups someone else takes
that and they don't always find you
later right and I've heard this any
everywhere from mckl at zenes and others
saying you gotta you know they do this
up market and then then they rotate back
do how important is that if do you need
to do you want to capture them at
Greenhouse sub a million in Revenue so
they stay with you for life how have you
thought about that over over a decade
yeah definitely I mean you look at our
Enterprise business and part of the
reason why it's so great is because a
lot of those companies started when they
were tiny yeah I we have a huge amount
of our midmarket that were SMB and our
Enterprise customers that were
mid-market just a few years ago and um
and so when you look at the true
lifetime value of one of those companies
you have to think about the fact that
like there's a there's a um even after
segment shift so we look at a segment
business what we don't realize is like
well some of the turn in our Enterprise
in our S&B business is actually
companies moving into into midmarket um
and so it's like more segment transfer
and so um so that that that's been a
dynamic for a long time and so look I
think you're right about the swing you
know nature of it I think we try to be
thoughtful about the fact that we are
running a portfolio of bets and you got
to place a few chips in each Square um
and be consistent over time it doesn't
mean that in a certain year you may
focus more on one place than another
tactically um but we're never going to
abandon one abandon the other it's just
more about managing a portfolio are
there and and maybe I should know this
and I don't are there like a couple
massive features that your Enterprise
customers need that the bid Market SB
literally don't care about when you're
managing 10,000 employees I don't know
where the what's the line for you for
Enterprise right maybe 5,000 10,000
employees yeah yeah we say actually it's
a thousand employees and up thousand
employees okay um but a workday
integration is a classic example of that
got it got it bus it's not it's not that
like they just want it a little bit less
like they don't want it at all it's not
relevant to them and right you know they
don't want like a little version of it
um you know versus an Enterprise it's a
requirement um and so uh that so that's
a great like there's a bunch of features
in in the different um approaches that
we've segmented out for that reason and
um to a related point the biggest theme
at saster annual this year um bummed we
didn't have you this year but we'll get
you back your lot we'll talk about your
travel before we break because it was an
interesting conversation we had but boy
the theme was multiproduct everyone
talked about I remember at s 2017 they
brought in Jeff Lawson and Peter gastner
to do these back-to-back and it was
early actually 2017 was early and the
but today it's everything and
particularly in HR there were a lot of
themes of SED ification in in HR right
um and all over the place you could see
it at one end from the rippings and the
others to lattice it was like
overwhelming so what have you what's
your and tell me where Greenhouse is on
this I should know I feel like you're
somewhat multiproduct but you're focused
yeah we're mostly like our Flagship
Greenhouse hiring software like the
applicant tracking system and all the
hiring stuff around it like that's the
bulk of our business we do you managed
to make that that's GNA get you to a
billion in Revenue though isn't it
that's the business um we'll see I feel
like um I feel like for us you know like
you said like we're at about 200 right
now you don't need any imagination to
c400 in that business because it's just
like more customers you know more of the
same um you know to get and and other
vendors have already done it so you can
kind of look around and see like oh this
has been done before um to get to a
billion of ARR just on the ATS business
it needs a little bit of imagination I'm
not saying it can't be done but but you
gota you got to think some things are
are true that that um you know that may
not be now or that have to stay true and
so I'm kind of thinking about it as like
okay so that growth can get us another
turn uh from 200 to 400 um then what so
that gives us a little bit of time okay
we don't have to do that today or this
year um but I'm thinking about like if
the first 10 years of greenhouse was
which believe it it's like crazy to
think how long it's been if the first
decade was uh let's let's win the ATS
Market okay check we're still on the
same Mission which is Let's Help every
company become great at hiring so it's
like okay are there other things our
customers do in hiring that they don't
do super well that now that we're at
this scale we think we can help them get
better at like yeah that is a long list
so I think we're starting now thinking
about okay for the next decade of
greenhouse how do we really take the
next step in that mission and what are
the opportunities there given what we
built yeah I guess that point that if
you have comps that are bigger than your
target that are that have done then you
know you can do it especially if you
believe you have a better product right
going back in time though for like
Founders I remember in the early days
when we met I would introduce you guys
to different folks and the refrain was
another ATS okay like and people were
probably comparing it to to like Windows
based products that were very limited
right but did you know that the Tam
would be as big as it is today did you
have the confidence to say single
product e did you know you could get to
200 plus with your growth back then or
was it a constant thing you and you guys
were thinking about every year I'll tell
you what we I'll tell you what we knew
and and what we didn't what we knew was
hiring was a big problem yeah and worth
a lot of money a top a top 10 problem
right that's you know right top any way
you look at it like this is something
that bu every business cares about and
that there's real money in stake in
solving and the second thing we thought
was that the ATS business was failing to
solve that problem yeah we just it just
wasn't going to do it and so we knew we
had to do something different and
actually for the first six months we
didn't think we were going to build an
ATS at all because it didn't seem at any
way relevant to the solution we were
trying to to the problem we were trying
to solve um and it was it took some soul
searching for us to figure out like okay
but the buyers buy an
ATS and so as much as I want that not to
be true yes fact of the matter is we
have a category where every company buys
exactly one there's no such thing as a
company that doesn't have one and nobody
buys two yeah secondly all the buyers
are on LinkedIn because the head of
talent acquisition there's no such thing
as one of them who is on linked you go
find them and thirdly I can go to your
website and look at your careers page
and know everything about the incumbent
I know which product you're using I know
how much hiring you're doing and what
jobs you're hiring for like it's all
right there so it's a very addressable
market and so we thought ah the bar is
really low like apple Contracting
systems don't do a whole lot like
they're not very good and so we think we
can clear that bar we think we can
address this Market but it's only worth
doing if we see it as a vehicle for the
larger problem that we wanted to solve
and I didn't know if there was going to
be a big successful ATS business or not
at the time there really wasn't what I
what I'm surprised at now is that there
are at least three that I know of ATS
primarily businesses with plus a billion
dollar valuations and like that
definitely wasn't obvious in 2012 wasn't
obvious right not I certainly didn't
know that was gonna happen yeah and was
and think what and so did you think that
you wanted to for sure build an ATS or
was ATS a way you wanted to categor uh
to to help people understand the vision
what you want to do for hiring and
recruiting Jason you have to understand
even saying the word ATS has like been a
big growth Journey for me because for
years I wouldn't even say the word I was
just like I don't want to be one of
those it's not what we're doing it's not
you know and I remember having like in
the early days like I'd be on our sales
calls and I'd be talking to this buyer
and I remember get one in particular and
I got off you know the Call's ending he
says I believe everything you're saying
this product looks amazing I love it the
problem is I need to go buy an ATS like
I have this ATS I hate I got to get rid
of it let me go do that and then I'll
come back and buy Greenhouse afterwards
I was like wait whoa no stop hold on
yeah it's a big Insight right but I
wouldn't but so like I learned like one
of the and this maybe like is relevant
to to to a lot of startup Founders is
like you have to learn the language of
your buyers as different from the
language of your uh your investors and
your vision which goes to like your
employees and even yourself yeah and
like we learned that lesson the hard way
through conversations like I just
related and so made the made the
decision okay like Hey we're in the ATS
game we got a great one we got the best
one here's what it does and there's more
to it and we'll tell that story to the
buyer but you got to be in the buyer's
budget or else you're not going to get
bought and then if you look in my
investor decks all throughout the years
like it never says the word ATS yeah it
is interesting we relearn I keep
relearning this lesson there are in
software there are buckets yep there is
a CRM bu bucket uh an SFA HRM and there
is this ATS bucket and as Founders we
want to remake categories and and
innovate um but it's much easier if you
innovate in a bucket that's right right
even if you're actually changing the
bucket and and and and also buyers have
been buying these categories of software
for 20 years and they're reing them
right and so you it's so much energy to
train them to buy a new type of software
right it's so that's the it's it's not
worth it if you can avoid it is it
frankly it's a lot of energy just to
train them to buy your category for a
little yeah that's all the energy you
might have right you know in a little
bit of a different way or with a little
bit of different value prop that's that
like we have do a ton of buyer education
yeah just on that um and so you know to
to to have the conversation of like hey
like your ATF seems great but how do I
tell my CFO that I want to buy like a
more expensive ATS I'm like don't tell
them that at all like there's a whole
bunch of Education we do just to get
that done to then say like actually
we're in a whole different category like
I don't know so you see that a little
bit now like there's some opportunities
to do that where a whole new paradigm
comes AI is a big one so now everyone's
saying like oh you've got your ATS but
now you've got an AI think you got to
buy and we've got one I don't know how
long that's going to last like I think
there's like these moments where you can
like say we're the internet version like
you've got the old version or we're the
local mobile social version yeah or not
you can say we're the AI version and get
like a new bucket made but I think
ultimately those all get folded down
into the main into the main stack what
are you so what what are you thinking
about AI for recruiting and and sort of
human capital overall what what you I'm
sure you guys have been thinking about
it a lot uh and separating the the the
the hype from the reality I have my own
opinions but what have you learned so
far yeah and damn it we made it 18
minutes in without saying they AI but I
guess you brought it up I should have
put it on the list I'm still I feel like
I'm so early on my Discovery Journey
like I'm I I'll I'll I'll tell you what
I think if you're curious but I but what
you you think is much more important
than what I think yeah look I think um
you know obviously these technologies
have burst on the scene and everybody
knows about chat gbt so I think
everyone's rushing to put a chat gbt
like thing in their product and we'll do
some of that as well so for us like one
of the one of the neat um ideas that we
um are working on is reporting everybody
wants lots of sophisticated reporting
but they don't know how to express it
and so clicking around in your report
Builder is hard for them um but they can
just talk to the report Builder and say
hey I kind of want to see how many
candidats I have by stage and then
iterate and say no no no no no I want to
see it in a bar chart actually I wanted
it grouped to this way and and and
iterate it's a great but but there
there's so much more to it I think um a
couple things I'll say one is um we see
we think a lot about fairness at
greenhouse and and and how can you use
technology to improve uh fairness both
because it feels like the right thing to
do and that's important to us but also
it's a huge business opportunity after
all if you're if you're not fairly
assessing candidates it just means
you're missing out on great talent that
your competitors aren't well AI can cut
both ways there though can't it right
has if you talked to anyone been AI a
long time there's so much bias in a lot
of AI models right that's exactly my
point is I think you know if you just
say take things like we see a lot of
folks that are saying oh we're going to
take Ai and filter your top of funnel
and ask it to just rank all the
candidates and that way you can save
time and look at the top 10 like that's
a disastrous and you will definitely
magnify any biases that are present in
that database to begin with not to
mention the fact that there's a whole
new host of local and state laws uh
governing that that you're now subject
to you and your customers not subject to
so we're very much a studiously avoiding
that but that I think there's a real
opportunity on the opposite side to use
these technology to improve fairness so
one example is um we have uh a patent on
a new uh machine learning based resume
parser which may sound a little wonky
but um the dirty little secret is that
all the vendors in the whole industry
use about two or three different of the
same resume parsers and they're not very
good they parsed about an 80% accuracy
they're just trying to extract
structured data from them or are they
trying to evate you submit a resume and
it's in a PDF or a Word document and
every if there's 100 RS there's
different formats they're just it's not
it's crazy do and so getting the
information out of that resume is really
really difficult computer problem um but
we've we've we've um improved the
state-ofthe-art by significant amount uh
to the fact that ours can now parse in
the mid to Upper 90s percentage of it
rumes accurately and so what that allows
us to do is things like when you submit
your resume to a job we can anonymize it
I can blank out your name and
identifying information automatically at
scale and then submit that into the
hiring manager and they can just assess
your skills and
everyone wants to do so that's a way
where you can kind of use machine
learning to improve fairness and to
level the playing field there's lots of
studies that show for example that rume
submitted by women or by people with
traditionally African-American sounding
names just don't get assessed as fairly
for sure as others and so if you can
remove that bias you give yourself a
light off so that's a great example um
we're also using to power much more
powerful search right and so doing the
little Boolean Andor stuff in
everybody's like search box is fine but
using natural language search and then
expanding that across the huge amount of
data that we have in Greenhouse is like
a real opportunity so there's tons and
tons of of stuff that it's going to do
for for every every SAS business I think
yeah that was what got her to G2 their
big push is trying to to to take all
that massive G2 data kind of like you
have for people and make search work
right right um what about last one the
one I'm obsessed with is everyone wants
to aify things right um yeah I'm more
obsessed in my aha moments early on were
in legal which are get automating
processes that are frankly impossible
today okay like reviewing 10,000
commercial ndas are like you can't do it
right there's so many gotas that are
going to get in there and when I think
about hiring there's so many Rando
resumés that come in right and one thing
is parsing them and putting but there's
so many applicants is there some way to
use AI to find gems
that we would otherwise not find isn't
that also a magic a magic AI because
humans can only for your bigger
Enterprise customers like just how many
inbounds are they how many applicants
are they processing it's like
overwhelming isn't it it is it can be
and and so how do you handle 200,000
applicants a year
like we definitely see that in our
customer base where some jobs get
overwhelmed with applicants the soon as
they open them especially if the company
has like a great consumer brand and
people know them um and others are gving
for for candidates and so that is
definitely a problem in in in many
categories of of of job opening I think
there's real opportunity there as you
say to to focus them on on the right
candidates I think AI can be a really
dangerous way to do that for some reason
we just said um so there's some good
opportunities and some tricky
opportunities I think the tricky
opportunities the ones I said before is
like have the AI just scan all the
resumés and find the ones that are most
likely hired and send those forward
because like guess who's most likely to
get hired well it turns out same six
people everywhere same six people right
you know frat guys named Chad are going
to be like make it through your like
sales process work stripe like is that a
good thing like I don't know right um so
we want to avoid magnifying existing
biases at the same time um what there is
is um automatic taxonomy for example
what do I mean by that you might call
yourself a software engineer the other
guy calls himself a developer it's the
same job but the search engine making
sure you don't miss that applicant right
so can AI actually like converge your
skills
are you a C++ you know like all the
different things like salesperson versus
like you can really like simplify and
find people that may have the skills but
didn't type it correctly on their resume
and that whole era of people trying to
like jam as many keywords on their
resume as possible so that the ATS
wouldn't lose it like we can end that so
I think there is opportunity to do those
things the other stuff though like we go
back to the root cause of like why are
there so many applicants for certain
jobs in the first place and how can we
how can we fix that problem before it
even like rather than just get a bunch
of chaff and try to try to filter it out
afterwards like why don't we make our
customer much better at finding exactly
the people they need to find in the
first place yeah that is that's one of
the existential goals of greenhouse
since the beginning right I think that's
a real opportunity for us and something
that we're making a ton of progress on
all right one last AI question I know
you get tired of AI but just for what
you see in the field are you seeing from
buyers that there is any HR any AI
budget is there any because cios are
doing some of this but I don't know if
it boils down to you where people want
to experiment they've got another 20 or
$30,000 for AI and it's almost uh risky
if you don't tap into it right because
it may go to another vendor right are
you seeing this budgeted or is it not
really budgeted in your in your space uh
I don't know that I've seen like a
specific AI budget
exactly I think there is a a
very um there's a strong mix of
excitement yeah and fear in our in our
world that may be different in other
markets I think it's common yeah
excitement and fear right and kind of
like the HR like there's like a lot of
rules about this stuff um and people are
scared about getting it wrong but to
your point they don't want to miss the
boat and they see the opportunity so
there's like a lot of cautious optimism
I think everybody wants to try things
but I heard actually I was again in
these conferences I've been at um I
heard someone telling the story that
like oh yeah I'm using that stuff but I
use it on my personal account so people
are literally like logging on home
laptop and doing things for work that
they that they're kind of not allow to
do at work and then you know doing the
experiments that way because people are
people are nervous but they're like but
they can't not do it yeah they can't not
do it um okay just a couple things
before we run out of time I wanted to
chat about higher level stuff one before
we got on we were we were talking about
how much you travel even now as a CEO
and at around 200 million revenue and
and leverage that you get on your team
right and maybe just a few learnings for
folks I think you're in year 10ish of
greenhouse right maybe 11 to depending
on how you count I don't know 10 right
uh I don't think you can survive without
this leverage right even though you're
still traveling I think you said you
traveled like 80 you know half the last
three months so talk about this what
you've learned from getting leverage out
of the rest of your team yes I'm gr I'm
a grudging Platinum uh flyer on Delta um
look I think uh one thing I'll say is
like yeah like to your point you never
get away from in some ways you end up
doing more you know travel and being in
person with customers and um and that's
just to me um you know
no one I say no one can do what I do in
the sense that like there's only going
to be ever like one founding CEO of
green apps so that gives you a certain
kind of power in any room that's a real
that you really want to take advantage
of and so I don't make our products I
don't even write the product road map I
don't sell a single copy of greenhouse
or manage any customer accounts or solve
any their technical problems so there's
almost everything our company does I
can't do one thing I can do no it's true
no I know it's funny but one thing I can
do is you can put me in a room and I can
do my thing and so that's great for
customers it's great on stage uh it's
great in in internal Communications and
so like I try to think about like what
are the rooms that I need to be in
because I have the skill or because of
my position I try to be in a lot of
those because it's one of the ways I can
I can add value um but uh but the other
piece of it to your point is like if you
can
find uh people on your team that can add
that can be additive to your to your
life and that can help you get out of
the weeds and do the thing that you do
uniquely like that to me is the big
unlock in hiring what I mean by that is
I've described it as I feel like with my
team I have an anti-gravity uh device
meaning I don't get weighed down into
their world I don't have to go fix their
stuff I'm happy to help them we
collaborate a lot they're they come to
me to like break logs or like make
decisions but if I'm trying to do their
job I can't do my own and and a lot of
times I've given that advice to folks in
my organization as well which is I see
someone doing the job of one of their
team members and they're thinking like
well if I don't do this job it won't get
done and I'm like that's a bad smell
because it's not your job and so the
person whose job it is needs to be able
to do it and if they can't you got to
upskill them train them support them or
find someone who can do it so that you
can do your job so that I can do my job
and the feeling I always have is like I
remember I had someone ask me on my team
once like well if you're not there to
oversee it you know aren't you aren't
you worried that it's not going to get
done well and I was I was like no
because when I'm not there to oversee it
you're there to oversee it and you're
awesome and she was like oh right I said
so when you're not in the room when your
team is doing the work you should have
the feeling that like you're happy
because they're awesome and they're
doing it well if you don't have that
feeling like you can fix
that it's good all right two last kind
of tactical questions I want to get
peering peering into to your data and
your Coo's head before I lose you um
layoffs and rehiring Salesforce just
announced they wanted to like rehire
2,000 of people they laid off I just
wrote up samsara which is an rocket ship
they just said they way under hired for
sales reps um but also we know a lot of
unicorns and others that are deeply
struggling right so what does your data
say um how are we doing in your two
segments right sort of Enterprise
mid-market or smaller and what is what
are you seeing in the trends for the
coming 12 months yeah I mean to our
business first like um we're obviously
seeing um I shouldn't say Obviously you
wouldn't have asked um we're seeing um a
lot of stress on on small business and
and you know kind of VC backed small
small companies yeah there was an ERA
there uh of you know kind of free money
that that propelled a huge amount of
startup growth and that's not happening
anymore and so us and every other vendor
are seeing turn in that segment up just
because customers are going out of
business downgrade or churn overall like
what's more impactful for business I
mean the customer going out of business
custom business not Rene right and there
there's no playbook for that you know
there's no saster blog you can read to
tell you how no but but the ones we see
on Tech crunch do not represent the
entire world right the United States has
3% unemployment so we're Tech is never
the completely the real world as
critical as it is right that's right
that's right and we and we do um a
probably over index on not not even just
tech companies but like knowledge
workers more generally so uh we like to
say you know we sell the companies that
think of themselves as people first
meaning every hire you know makes a big
impact on your organization and you're
usually competing for tent and so these
are jobs that are like management
Consultants finance companies
advertising marketing media companies
like those are similar they have similar
Talent characteristics to a tech company
and so in all of those uh you know types
of Industries and and jobs um the buyers
are are are hiring less and in some
cases these layoffs are hitting um and
and and some of them are going out of
business so so you're not seeing yet a
reduction in stress in that segment
you're not seeing a little bit of a
rebound elevated i' say it's stopped
getting worse but it hasn't got better
yet got it um versus in the Enterprises
in the larger organizations even in
those S similar types of businesses
you're just seeing a lot more um you
know because they can plan over the long
term and so I know you just named know a
couple large organizations but I'd say
just in general the trend is much more
positive and much more healthy because
they just roll along and they stay you
know not going to go out of business
because there's you know interest rates
went up a few points yeah some even got
too lean right some of the folks got
talking with Iran from Monday at Sanel
this year I mean Monday grew 60% and did
a hiring freeze for a year it just can't
you can't do that forever no because you
your needs went up do one year you can
do it one year right everyone got the
memo that Capital markets are just like
valuing I you know a rule of 40 or
whatever so they so so they cut you know
they they made those ratios better for a
bit but yeah if you're still growing if
you're if you're blessed enough to have
a business that's growing like that you
gota you gotta keep up with it well
maybe you're not seeing it yet that's
why I don't but here's what I'm seeing
is like I think the memo like people
read about the layoffs right for big
companies not for startups or or or but
the truth is the layoffs are really just
about quickly getting lean quickly
getting fit like if you're a Salesforce
or even a smaller one like Monday or
whatever or samsar these are great
companies they're growing it's just Wall
Street said you got to be profitable
right so not only people do layoffs but
but quietly they did they did mostly
hiring fees in many cases for you which
probably wasn't great for Greenhouse for
those customers right not terrible cuz
not going to churn but you're not going
to sell much more if there's a hiring
but I don't think those I think there's
got to be this quiet reflation in 2024
because these hire no one can freeze for
two years and grow right no one can
freeze your mouth to God's ears man but
but but I'm seeing it anecdotally but
but you have you have more data you're
not seeing across the we know we know
what's gonna happen it's obviously just
a question question of when it's allal I
think the one maybe maybe one indicative
data point that we that we have is we
look at the use of recruitment agents
agencies uh across our customer base as
kind of a bell weather of how tight the
talent Market is because I see you stop
using them when when times are tight
gotc you know when you've got enough
applicants then you don't you know
you're not going to go spend 40 Grand to
to hire you know to hire an agency to
bring in an engineer or something yeah
um and when times are tough everyone
does that and so that's much more swingy
of spend than on like a SAS tool like
ours but we see all that spend and I can
tell you it's way down right now okay I
I may be slightly too bullish uh by by
looking yeah um and so it's uh you know
we look at that as as a real bellweather
of of of how competitive and and spendy
companies are being on hiring because
their Greenhouse bill is kind of con you
know they know we know what that is a
year in advance yeah but when they hire
agencies a lot they know we know pinch
all right last different question before
I lose you very different just because
it's it's niche but okay people don't
talk about enough private being private
Equity acquired or owned right right um
very so 2021 when times were good
greenhouse had crazy times after
lockdown right it was really bad and
then really good and then really like
you had more yo-yos everyone had yo-yo
it was really bad for it was really bad
for about three weeks yeah and then it
went very good for about two years yeah
so then Texas Pacific group bought your
investors out for a close to a billion
dollars all in right and you're still
here what more than two years later yeah
absolutely okay so you you get a little
bit of liquidity that's part of the deal
in a way I've always thought for a
certain founder it's not perfect but the
Best of Both Worlds because you can get
a little more liquidity than you might
otherwise get but you get to play
another card right you give up a little
bit right but you also get to play
another card what what but but also you
have this big shareholder right with
different goals and a and a and a slow
clock ticking that maybe is different
than an angel investor who's like Daniel
I love you whatever happens happens it's
a so what have you learned in this PE
world it's a great question I would say
a couple of things one maybe more advice
as a as a Founder which is yeah you know
you kind of mentioned like yeah when we
took when we took on um this investment
a bunch of early
shareholders sold um including people
like me and others who had been in early
not all of everything we had but just a
little bit and my advice to Founders has
always been is not necessarily about me
or anything new but it's always been
like as a startup founder your
opportunities for liquidity are very few
and far between fewer than we think in
the good times we get this wrong in the
good times right yeah when things are
going well you're just like oh yeah this
thing is gonna go up forever um but uh
but but it
might but even so like aren't a lot of
buyers all the time and it's hard to
it's hard to make those things happen so
when they come along like take advantage
of it because it's very very lumpy and
you know you never know when when or if
your next one will come so I know people
sometimes wrestle with that and they
worry I'm leaving money on the table
what if it triples in the next few years
like my my dreams are going to say
they're going to like don't regret
selling a little bit along the way uh
because you may not get another bite of
the Apple even if it feels like you're
you know you have all the choice in the
world so that's like one learning that
I've had over my 27e career doing this
three times in a row um and talking to
lots of other Founders who both made
that mistake and not um secondly is yeah
having private Equity um ownership is
different than Venture Capital they
different goals and um that's fine but
you got to understand it and I think
it's easy to not think about or to sort
of put it aside um but you know I'm I'm
accountable to three very different
stakeholders I'm accountable to my
customers and my employees and my
investors and so when that investor base
changes that's going to have a lot of
impacts on on what your strategy is and
you know for a average private Equity
investor you know they want to get a you
know triple not a grand slam and so
knowing like how do I deliver that in
the time frame that matters to them is
is is um it's just a different feel uh
than than having a VC who um you know if
their other investment is we work you
know hey like you're fine you nothing
there is that you're fine nothing you're
gonna do is gonna matter um you know for
for a PE like they want to manufacture
consistent wins like time and time again
did you did they because usually folks
like these big guys have a bench of
cosos they can bring in did you have
option to stay or transition out if you
wanted to did the conversation ever even
come up because you know with like with
other folks from the old days Kyle from
sales off transition out of a while Andy
from logical just got acquired for
almost 300 million raising very little
he they they brought in someone the day
the deal closed right so any learnings
from that process if it ever came up it
never came up with me in the room I can
tell you I see they wanted they wanted
you for because Greenhouse was big
enough you could it wouldn't do as well
but you could bring in a guy yeah I
don't recurring Revenue right or or or a
woman yeah I didn't I did I I try to use
that as a non-gender specific term but I
know what you meant I know what you look
I look I don't imagine I'm the only
person out of seven billion earthlings
that could run this company for sure at
the same time at this scale at this
scale right there's lots of people that
are qualified to run a company like this
at the same time like I said number one
I think there is something unique about
a Founder that that that is running a
business and and and and so I think that
does have power and number two like I
wanted to do it I was excited about it I
wasn't going anywhere and so we didn't
do this deal because we thought we
needed a change in management or because
I was ready to retire we did this deal
because it was a great way to finance
the business tbg is a great partner um
the growth fund which is investing in
growth businesses they're not a buyout
fund and the rise fund which invests in
in in positive social impact um was the
perfect partnership for us so like that
all made a ton of sense but um but no
John and I certainly didn't have any
intention to go anywhere and luckily uh
they agreed with that it's just every
and that's the that's a good that's an
maybe we'll break there is just it when
PE firms approach and everyone's
different and the funds are different
that described right but sometimes the
pitch to to Founders that achieve nine
figures or maybe even 50 million up in
revenue is look Daniel you're great but
you've been doing this eight years
you've been doing this nine years and if
you want Linda Linda at our at our fund
who was at whatever before she was at
workday and you're gonna love her and if
you want you just let us and the beauty
is there aren't that many exits as a
Founder that are like that clear like
it's tough to leave the day after night
o or the week before or the week before
you raise a round but PE is one of the
only times and if you get acquired by a
big tech company like they're gonna
force you to stay a couple years maybe
you you screw around but P can actually
come in and say Here's a few nickels on
the driveway just and like you literally
can go chill not be on a beach but uh
I've always thought that would be an
interesting moment to observe this
discussion right but it didn't happen
that way in this case right yeah that
wasn't that wasn't what we were trying
to put together and like I think you
said the key the key phrase which is not
all p is the same and so there's buyout
funds and there's growth funds and
there's different things doing different
different you know people doing rollups
and so there's all kinds of strategies
there for us it was a growth partner and
there was a social impact component to
it and so that that was like what we
needed and wanted pretty cool all right
Daniel this was great did we miss
anything we we want to touch on on
Greenhouse or any any thoughts you've
had in general did we miss anything I
talk about greenhous for for months but
no I think this was a great a great tour
through kind of like what's happening
these days around the company and I'm
hopefully helpful to people cool and
last one what's the next very last
question what's the next cool release
feature thing coming out for greenhous
what's the coolest thing we can we can
expect in the next uh three six nine 12
months is there something great coming
down the pipe yeah if you're not in our
industry this may not mean a whole lot
to you but for people that are people
that are Town acquisition nerds goals so
the idea that you can set company goals
or individual goals on hiring in
greenhous well hold on that's
interesting right I mean okr's goals
kpis is is one of the oldest categories
there is isn't it are you hitting your
goals like so like that's a really neat
new thing in Greenhouse that people are
um are doing uh in a lot of neat ways
and uh it helps with accountability uh
it helps with showing value to your
stakeholders and so little subtle and
goals based just around hiring and
people management or even broader than
that are you getting into the overall
ceg we're hiring platform so there but
but but there's a lot of stuff we do so
is it are you what kind of goal you know
we can talk about setting goals for
things like um getting scorecards
completed on time which is a huge
differentiator in the market we can talk
goals for like how many candidates do
you want in your pipeline by what day so
there's all kinds of different goals
setting you can do in greenhouse and the
nice part is the more people set goals
in Greenhouse the more we can automate
the process of saying like you're not on
track to hit your goal here's something
you can do about it and like and is it a
different module or is it part of the
core product or how you thinking about
it it's baked right in the more we see
people uh needing to hit those goals the
more things we can help them do to try
to do that cool all right Greenhouse
goals I'm very excited is that what it's
called or does it have a Pier name than
that GRE product marketing manager Jason
Lin you know I'm very into the
descriptive names uh all right Daniel
this was so great thanks for making all
of the time while you're in in a mega
mega month or two of travel it's great
and congratulations on the first decade
the first couple hundred million in in
ARR